# 3D-pose-estimation-for-ergonomics-analysis

_Marchello G, Abidi H, Farajtabar M, Lahoud M, Fontana E, D’Imperio M, Cannella F_

Sedentary lifestyle is widely known as a cause of different musculoskeletal disorders. The effects of sitting all day for work can however be mitigated by correcting the postures. Monitoring human pose to perform ergonomics analysis may help reporting wrong or potentially harmful postures, and consequently preventing health problems. In this paper, we propose a vision-based system tracking in real-time the pose of manufacturing operators in 3D. The pose estimation is performed by applying OpenPose [1] to the RGB images recorded by the depth camera RealSense d435i, and matching the results to their corresponding depth values. The angles of the joints composing the reconstructed skeleton are then computed, and are further used to evaluate the associated discomfort levels. Such values represent the deviations from optimal working limits, as suggested by current ergonomic studies. This work is part of the SOFTMANBOT project, a cross-sectorial project funded by the EU Horizon 2020 framework, automating textile production lines. Consequently, the project aims at increasing the productivity, yet reducing the health risks of the workers.

# Method

This method has its roots in the tf-pose-estimation by Ildoo Kim modified to work with Tensorflow 2.0+ (https://www.github.com/ildoonet/tf-openpose), and extends it to the depth map generated by the RealSense d435i. Once the skeleton is reconstructed, the positions of the joints are exploited to compute the angles, by projecting them into the three orthogonal axes of the reference system, and recurring to basic geometry theorems. These angles are further analysed in order to evaluate the level of discomfort associated with the human posture. The ergonomics analysis is performed according to the study proposed by Kee et al., who defined the boundary conditions of the joints angles for sitting persons [2].

## How to cite
```
@article{,
  title={3D pose estimation for ergonomics analysis of manufactory labours},
  author={Marchello, Gabriele and Abidi, Haider and Farajtabar, Mohammad and Lahoud, Marcel and Fontana, Eleonora and D'Imperio, Mariapaola and Cannella, Ferdinando},
  journal={},
  year={2022},
  publisher={}
}
```

### References 

[1] Cao, Zhe, et al. "Realtime multi-person 2d pose estimation using part affinity fields." Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. 2017
[2] Kee, Dohyung, and Waldemar Karwowski. "The boundaries for joint angles of isocomfort for sitting and standing males based on perceived comfort of static joint postures." Ergonomics 44.6 (2001): 614-648.
